---
layout: default
permalink: dictionary/%23/
---

# \#

&nbsp;

### ++
* The ++ prefix defines entities in the SMPMCS file that are understood by SMP/E.

### ++HOLD
* SMPMCS statement that identifies an exception or special processing required in order to apply or accept a SYSMOD.

### ++IF
* SMPMCS statement that defines dependencies/requisites that must be installed with a SYSMOD.

### ++JAR
* SMPMCS statement to replace a Java JAR file.

### ++JARUPD
* SMPMCS statement to update a Java JAR file.

### ++JCLIN
* SMPMCS statement that identifies JCL that needs to be run in order to install SYSMOD.

### ++MAC
* SMPMCS statement that identifies a MACRO to replace or delete.

### ++MACUPD
* SMPMCS statement that identifies a MACRO to update within a PTF, APAR fix, or USERMOD.

### ++MOD
* SMPMCS statement that identifies a binary object to replace or delete within a LOAD MODULE or PROGRAM OBJECT.

### ++MOVE
* SMPMCS statement that identifies an entity that need to be moved to a different distribution or target library.

### ++NULL
* TODO

### ++PRODUCT
> 💡 _Like a version number._

* SMPMCS statement that describets the product.

### ++PROGRAM
* SMPMCS statement that describes a pre-built LOAD MODULE or PROGRAM OBJECT to replace or delete.

### ++PTF
* SMPMCS statement that identifies a service/bug fix SYSMOD to replace or update entities in the target or distribution libraries.

### ++RELEASE
* SMPMCS statement that removes an exception/special processing defined by a previous ++HOLD statement from a SYSMOD.

### ++RENAME
* SMPMCS statement that renames a load module in all target libraries.

### ++SRC
* SMPMCS statement that identifies a single source code file to replace or delete.

### ++SRCUPD
> 💡 _Think of Git. Git tracks changes in source code files._

* SMPMCS statement that identifies a set of changes to be made to source code within a PTF, APAR fix, or USERMOD.

### ++USERMOD
* SMPMCS statement that identifies USERMOD. In other words, it identfies some new functionality to be introduced.

### ++VER
* SMPMCS statement that identifies the environment required for installing a SYSMOD _(i.e. z/OS version, dependencies, etc...)_.

### ++ZAP
* SMPMCS statement that identifies a binary object to update within a LOAD MODULE or PROGRAM OBJECT within a PTF, APAR fix, or USERMOD.

### 3270
> 💡 _Think of SSH._

* This is the traditional terminal interface for interacting with TSO and ISPF.