---
layout: default
permalink: dictionary/S/
---

# S

&nbsp;

### SAF *(System Authorization Facility)*
* This is the z/OS component that manages security on the system. All security requests go to SAF. SAF can be used alone, or it can more securely be used with a security manager like RACF, ACF2, or Top Secret.

### SDSF *(System Display and Search Facility)*
> 💡 _Think of Task Manager on Windows._

* A program that runs on MVS that shows jobs running and job output.

### SE *(Support Element)*
> 💡 _this is the laptop connected to door on the mainframe box._

* This is the management console mounted directly to the z/OS box.

### Second Level System
* An operating system that is running on z/VM or some hypervisor.

### Security Context
* The security metadata associated with the user that is attached to their address space and all of their threads and procosess.

### Sequential Data Set
* This is a flat file on z/OS. In other words the data set represents only one file. For example, only one distinct program or entity can be written to a sequential data set.

### SLA *(Service Level Agreement)*
> 💡 _This is just something that a business guarantees to the user._

* Obligations that banks and enterprises have for their customers. *(i.e. All credit card transactions are guaranteed to take 8 ms)*

### Slot
* This is a 4 kilobytes page of auxiliary storage/memory, meaning that this is storage/memory that has been swapped out to disk due to inactivity.

### SIE *(Set Interpretive Execution)*
* This is a special assembly instruction used to give control to a virtual machine guest. In general, this instructuon enables secure machine virtualization on s390x architecture.

### Single CSECT Module
* This is a load module that is composed of only one segment or control section.

### SMP/E *(System Modification Program Extended)*
> 💡 _This is analogus to the the package managers used on Linux like `apt-get`, `apk`, and `yum`._

* SMP/E is used to manage the installation of z/OS software products and fixes.

### SMP/E Installable Package
* This is a package of distribution libraries shipped to customers. This package contains the SMPMCS files and relfiles.

### SMPCSI *(SMP Consolidated Service Inventory)*
* This is a VSAM data set used by SMP/E for controlling z/OS product installation and recording the results.

### SMPMCS *(SMP Modification Control Statements)*
* This is a metadata file used by SMP/E to tell it how to install a product or update on the system.

### SMPMTS *(SMP Macro Temporary Storage)*
* Used by SMP/E as temporary storage for Macros during installation time.

### SMPLTS
* Data set used by SMP/E to manitain base versions of load modules.

### SMPPTS
* Data set used by SMP/E as a temporary repository where SYSMODS are recieved and stored until they are installed.

### SMPSCDS
* Data set used to backup libraries installed on the system.

### SMPSTS *(SMP Source Temporary Storage)*
* Data set used by SMP/E as temporary storage for source during installation time.

### SMS *(System Managed Storage)*
* This is a component used to automate the management of DASD and storage on z/OS.

### SMT *(Simultaneous Multithreading)*
> 💡 _This is similar to the hyperthreading capabilities that are supported on many Intel processors._

* Simultaneous multithreading allows two threads to be handled on one processor core. This feature is supported on IFL and zIIP processors.

### SNA *(Systems Network Architecture)*
> 💡 _Think TCP/IP._

* This is a networking protocol. A key difference between SNA and TCP/IP is that a session must first be established before two servers can communicate.

### SRB *(Service Request Block)*
* This is a block of memory that represents a request to the system for a system service.

### Storage
* This is not disk. This is actually memory/RAM.

### Supervisor
* The Kernel of z/OS.

### Supervisor State
* A program that is running with operating system level privileges.

### SVC *(Supervisor Call)*
> 💡 _Like syscall on Linux._

* This is a call/interrupt to have the system do something on the user program's behalf.

### SVCLIB *(Supervisor Call Library)*
* Library/directory that contains supervisor calls.

### SYSLIB
* In SMP/E, this is used to refer to target libraries where an element will be installed.

### SYSLOG *(System Log)*
* This is the accumulation of messages generated by operators, programs, and system components.

### SYSMOD *(System Modification)*
* This is an SMP/E term used to refer to anything that modifies the system.

### SYSPROG *(System Programmer)*
* The person who manages the system. The system programmer's job is to install software updates and patches, configure the system, and request hardware resources.

### SYSIN
* This is the input data set/file for a JCL job step.

### SYSOUT
* This is the output data set/file for a JCL job step.

### SYS1
* This is where all of the system data sets are stored *(MACLIB, LPALIB, LINKLIB, etc...)*.

### Sysplex
* This is a mechanism for linking disparate z/OS systems together using a coupling facility.

### Sysplex Timer: 
* This is a mechanism for synchronizing the clock of all members of a sysplex.

### SYSRES *(System Residence Volume)*
> 💡 _Think of the hard drive or SSD that your PC boots from._

* This is the disk device where the operating system is loaded from.

### System Variable
> 💡 _System Variables can be thought of as analogous to environment variables on Linux._

* These are system defined global variables that can be used within JCL.
